README.md, before:

# fps-go-brr

> **⚠️ Work in Progress**: This project is actively under development and not yet feature-complete!

A Go CLI tool for video frame analysis and comparison. Analyze frame persistence, detect dropped frames, and export data for visualization tools like those used by Digital Foundry.

## Features

- **Frame Persistence Analysis**: Detect consecutive duplicate frames and measure persistence duration
- **CSV Export**: Generate data compatible with video analysis visualization tools
- **Multi-format Support**: Works with any video format supported by FFmpeg
- **Configurable Tolerance**: Adjust pixel difference sensitivity for noisy videos
- **Real-time Analysis**: Stream processing for efficient memory usage
- **Two-pass Architecture**: Accurate frame timing calculations for smooth visualizations

## Quick Start

### Installation

Download the latest release from the [releases page](https://git.aria.coffee/aria/fps-go-brr/releases) or build from source:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://git.aria.coffee/aria/fps-go-brr.git
cd fps-go-brr

# Build normally
go build -o fps-go-brr .

# Or build compact version (requires UPX)
./build-compact.sh
```

### Basic Usage

```bash
# Analyze frame persistence with CSV export
./fps-go-brr analyze-frame-persistence video.mp4 --csv-output analysis.csv

# With tolerance for noisy videos
./fps-go-brr analyze-frame-persistence video.mp4 --tolerance 10 --csv-output analysis.csv

# Count total frames in a video
./fps-go-brr count-frames video.mp4

# Compare two individual frames
./fps-go-brr compare-frames frame1.png frame2.png
```

## CSV Output Format

The `analyze-frame-persistence` command generates CSV files with the following columns:

| Column | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `frame` | Frame number (starts on 1) |
| `average_fps` | Running effective FPS calculation |
| `frame_time` | Current frame persistence duration (ms) |
| `unique_frame_count` | Cumulative unique frame count |
| `real_frame_time` | Total persistence time for smooth visualization |

## Use Cases

- **Game Performance Analysis**: Detect frame drops and stuttering in gameplay footage
- **Technical Reviews**: Generate data for Digital Foundry-style analysis

## Development Status

This project is under active development. Current feature wish list:

- [ ] Enhanced frame comparison algorithms
- [ ] Performance optimizations for large videos
- [ ] Additional export formats
- [ ] Cross-platform testing and compatibility
- [ ] Documentation improvements
- [ ] Graph generation from CSV

## Building

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.21 or later
- UPX (optional, for compact builds)

### Commands

```bash
# Standard build
go build -o fps-go-brr .

# Compact build with UPX compression
./build-compact.sh
```

## Repository

**Main Repository**: [https://git.aria.coffee/aria/fps-go-brr](https://git.aria.coffee/aria/fps-go-brr)  
**Mirror (GitHub)**: [https://github.com/BuyMyMojo/fps-go-brr](https://github.com/BuyMyMojo/fps-go-brr)

The main development happens on the personal Forgejo instance. The GitHub mirror also accepts pull requests and bug reports for convenience.

## Contributing

This is an early-stage project. Contributions, bug reports, and feature requests are welcome on either the main repository or the GitHub mirror!

## Technical Details

Built with:

- **CLI Framework**: [urfave/cli/v3](https://github.com/urfave/cli)
- **Video Processing**: [AlexEidt/Vidio](https://github.com/AlexEidt/Vidio)
- **Image Processing**: Go standard library

<!-- The tool uses a sophisticated two-pass analysis architecture to ensure accurate frame timing calculations for professional visualization tools. -->
<!-- ??? -->

## Inspirations

This project draws inspiration from:

- **[Digital Foundry](https://www.youtube.com/@DigitalFoundry)** - Professional video game performance analysis and technical reviews
- **[Brazil Pixel](https://www.youtube.com/@brazilpixel)** - Technical video analysis and frame rate studies
- **[TRDrop](https://github.com/cirquit/trdrop)** - Raw video analysis program for framerate estimation and tear detection
- **[Original Python implementation](https://web.archive.org/web/20250613174657/https://snippets.aria.coffee/snippets/2)** - Early proof-of-concept for frame persistence analysis

The goal is to provide similar professional-grade video analysis capabilities for the open-source community.

## Note on AI use

The use of AI in this project is minor and just an experiment, all major design decisions and functionality are heavily worked on by humans!

I do hope for future AI tools with ethical models to be avaliable and verifiable in the future!

The testing phase for Claude's coding agent in this repo is finished and it shall not contribute more to the code at the current time.

## License

SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT OR Apache-2.0

This project is dual-licensed under your choice of:

- MIT License - see [LICENSE.MIT](LICENSE.MIT) file for details
- Apache License 2.0 - see [LICENSE.Apache-2.0](LICENSE.Apache-2.0) file for details

Copyright (c) 2025 Aria, Wicket

---

Commit message:

refactor(README): add resdet info

README.md, after:

# fps-go-brr

> **⚠️ Work in Progress**: This project is actively under development and not yet feature-complete!

A Go CLI tool for video frame analysis and comparison. Analyze frame persistence, detect dropped frames, and export data for visualization tools like those used by Digital Foundry.

## Features

- **Frame Persistence Analysis**: Detect consecutive duplicate frames and measure persistence duration
- **CSV Export**: Generate data compatible with video analysis visualization tools
- **Multi-format Support**: Works with any video format supported by FFmpeg
- **Configurable Tolerance**: Adjust pixel difference sensitivity for noisy videos
- **Real-time Analysis**: Stream processing for efficient memory usage
- **Two-pass Architecture**: Accurate frame timing calculations for smooth visualizations
- **Resolution Measurements**: Using the [resdet](https://github.com/0x09/resdet) cli to log dynamic resolutions (Requires resdet to be installed seperately)

## Quick Start

### Installation

Download the latest release from the [releases page](https://git.aria.coffee/aria/fps-go-brr/releases) or build from source:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://git.aria.coffee/aria/fps-go-brr.git
cd fps-go-brr

# Build normally
go build -o fps-go-brr .

# Or build compact version (requires UPX)
./build-compact.sh
```

### Basic Usage

```bash
# Analyze frame persistence with CSV export
./fps-go-brr analyze-frame-persistence video.mp4 --csv-output analysis.csv

# With tolerance for noisy videos
./fps-go-brr analyze-frame-persistence video.mp4 --tolerance 10 --csv-output analysis.csv

# Count total frames in a video
./fps-go-brr count-frames video.mp4

# Compare two individual frames
./fps-go-brr compare-frames frame1.png frame2.png
```

## CSV Output Format

The `analyze-frame-persistence` command generates CSV files with the following columns:

| Column | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `frame` | Frame number (starts on 1) |
| `average_fps` | Running effective FPS calculation |
| `frame_time` | Current frame persistence duration (ms) |
| `unique_frame_count` | Cumulative unique frame count |
| `real_frame_time` | Total persistence time for smooth visualization |

## Use Cases

- **Game Performance Analysis**: Detect frame drops and stuttering in gameplay footage
- **Technical Reviews**: Generate data for Digital Foundry-style analysis

## Development Status

This project is under active development. Current feature wish list:

- [ ] Enhanced frame comparison algorithms
- [ ] Performance optimizations for large videos
- [ ] Additional export formats
- [ ] Cross-platform testing and compatibility
- [ ] Documentation improvements
- [ ] Graph generation from CSV

## Building

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.21 or later
- UPX (optional, for compact builds)

### Commands

```bash
# Standard build
go build -o fps-go-brr .

# Compact build with UPX compression
./build-compact.sh
```

## Repository

**Main Repository**: [https://git.aria.coffee/aria/fps-go-brr](https://git.aria.coffee/aria/fps-go-brr)  
**Mirror (GitHub)**: [https://github.com/BuyMyMojo/fps-go-brr](https://github.com/BuyMyMojo/fps-go-brr)

The main development happens on the personal Forgejo instance. The GitHub mirror also accepts pull requests and bug reports for convenience.

## Contributing

This is an early-stage project. Contributions, bug reports, and feature requests are welcome on either the main repository or the GitHub mirror!

## Technical Details

Built with:

- **CLI Framework**: [urfave/cli/v3](https://github.com/urfave/cli)
- **Video Processing**: [AlexEidt/Vidio](https://github.com/AlexEidt/Vidio)
- **Image Processing**: Go standard library

<!-- The tool uses a sophisticated two-pass analysis architecture to ensure accurate frame timing calculations for professional visualization tools. -->
<!-- ??? -->

## Inspirations

This project draws inspiration from:

- **[Digital Foundry](https://www.youtube.com/@DigitalFoundry)** - Professional video game performance analysis and technical reviews
- **[Brazil Pixel](https://www.youtube.com/@brazilpixel)** - Technical video analysis and frame rate studies
- **[TRDrop](https://github.com/cirquit/trdrop)** - Raw video analysis program for framerate estimation and tear detection
- **[Original Python implementation](https://web.archive.org/web/20250613174657/https://snippets.aria.coffee/snippets/2)** - Early proof-of-concept for frame persistence analysis

The goal is to provide similar professional-grade video analysis capabilities for the open-source community.

## Note on AI use

The use of AI in this project is minor and just an experiment, all major design decisions and functionality are heavily worked on by humans!

I do hope for future AI tools with ethical models to be avaliable and verifiable in the future!

The testing phase for Claude's coding agent in this repo is finished and it shall not contribute more to the code at the current time.

## License

SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT OR Apache-2.0

This project is dual-licensed under your choice of:

- MIT License - see [LICENSE.MIT](LICENSE.MIT) file for details
- Apache License 2.0 - see [LICENSE.Apache-2.0](LICENSE.Apache-2.0) file for details

Copyright (c) 2025 Aria, Wicket

---
